### Overview:

OpenVoice is a cutting-edge voice cloning technology designed to replicate a speaker's voice using only a short audio clip. This versatile system not only mimics the tone color of the reference speaker but also provides granular control over various voice attributes such as emotion, accent, rhythm, pauses, and intonation. OpenVoice extends its capabilities to zero-shot cross-lingual voice cloning, allowing it to clone voices in languages not included in its training data. Additionally, it is significantly more cost-efficient compared to existing commercial APIs.


### Supported Languages:

- Using OpenAI TTS:
English, Spanish, French, German, Italian, Japanese, Russian, Arabic, Chinese, Hindi, Portuguese.

- Using MyShell/OpenVoice MeloTTS:
English (American, British, Indian, Australian, Default), Spanish, French, Chinese, Japanese, Korean.


### Installation and Usage:

Local setup and usage are pretty straightforward, where it can be locally started up by creating a Conda environment using Python 3.9 and pip install the requirements.txt. It also contained a demo book explaining the scripts to run the application. However for V2, issues encountered are setting up PyTorch and Tensorflow to use Cuda Toolkit from GPU in which troubleshooting was needed.


### Findings:

#### Pros: 
- Evaluated the performance and output by observation and comparing the original voice to the cloned voice. The key features showcased was its instant voice cloning where it only required a brief audio clip to replicate a reference speaker's voice and its capable of generating speech in multiple languages. It also provides granular control over voice attributes such tone color or voice style of the speaker (but this requires in-depth configuration to its python scripts). Notably, it can produce voice clone on different languages by only using one reference or what they call zero-shot cross-lingual voice cloning.
OpenVoice is also open-source and is free for commercial use (but it requires attribution under MIT License as all their generated voice clones can be detected as generated by OpenVoice).

- OpenVoice V1 features voice style control and cross-lingual voice cloning (using OpenAI TTS). While, OpenVoice V2 features the same but with the use of its own MeloTTS.

- For it's use case, it can be used as a tool for generating voice overs for pre-generated videos or audios. Additionally, it can be used as an alternative (as an overhead tool) for TTS.

#### Cons: 

- Based on the outputs, the cloned voice sounds monotonous and is still lacking in emotion.

- Also, in order to make use of its voice cloning capability to its supported languages, the text to be passed to it should be written in the same language.

- The quality falls short when producing very short audio as the voice style, tone, and emotion seems monotonous and lacks variation. This can be improved by increasing the audio length of the reference speaker.
